One way to look at soft constraints is to interpret
them as masses connected by rubber bands or springs.
When no external forces are acting on them,
the springs will naturally bring the system into a configuration,
where the forces experienced by all of the springs are minimized.
When the nodes are connected in a linear function as so,
the resting configuration is easy to find,
but the process becomes more challenging as nodes become more and more interconnected.
The springs will all try to push or pull the system in their own ways.
This is very similar to how constraints work in a graph.
Every motion or measurement constraint pulls
a system closer to that constraints desired state.
Since the measurement and motions are uncertain,
constraints will conflict with each other and there will always be some error present.
In the end, the goal is to find the node configuration that
minimizes the overall error present in all the constraints.